---
title: GitHub Collaborators
layout: home
parent: Collaborations
nav_order: 2
---
# Managing GitHub Collaborators
GitHub has its own methods of organizing collaborations. The following describes how GitHub permissions impact and are reflected in the AVAnnotate dashboard. 

1. _Permissions_: All members of a GitHub organization or GitHub repository will have viewing or editing access in the AVAnnotate dashboard to any AVAnnotate project created in that repository. Shared projects appear under the `Shared Projects` tab on the AVAnnotate dashboard. If a user is a "Member" of a GitHub organization or GitHub repository, they will have viewing access through the AVAnnotate dashboard to that project. If a user is an "Owner" of a GitHub organization or repository, they will be able to edit the project in the dashboard of AVAnnotate, but they will not be able to edit the project. Please visit (Managing Teams and People with Access to Your Repository)[https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/managing-repository-settings/managing-teams-and-people-with-access-to-your-repository] to learn more about changing existing permissions (e.g., from "Member" to "Owner"). 
2. _Adding or deleting a collaborator to an AVAnnotate GitHub repository_: Use the AVAnnotate dashboard to [Add and delete AVAnnotate Collaborators](https://avannotate.github.io/documentation/pages/add-collab/) or [Invite Personal Collaborators through GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-server@3.10/account-and-profile/setting-up-and-managing-your-personal-account-on-github/managing-access-to-your-personal-repositories/inviting-collaborators-to-a-personal-repository).
3. _Creating Collaborations through GitHub Organizations_: [Creating a new GitHub organization](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/collaborating-with-groups-in-organizations/creating-a-new-organization-from-scratch) is a method for  allowing teams or classes to build projects together in the same GitHub Organization or collection of repositories. All members of the organization will be able to select that organization on the [Add Project](https://avannotate.github.io/documentation/pages/creating_projects/) page. Members who are "Owners" in that organization will all have editing access to any AVAnnotate repositories created in that organization. "Members" of the organization will be able to see the other members' projects in `Shared Projects` but will not be able to edit other members' projects. 
